<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title id="x-1">Foundation and Application modules</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">The <codeph id="x-4">mkYesod</codeph> function which we have used throughout the book declares a few
   things:</p>
  <ul id="ul_ajc_dzg_oe">
   <li id="x-5">Route type</li>
   <li id="x-6">Route render function</li>
   <li id="x-7">Dispatch function</li>
  </ul>
  <p id="x-8">The dispatch function refers to all of the handler functions, and therefore all of those must
   either be defined in the same file as the dispatch function, or be imported by the dispatch
   function.</p>
  <p id="x-9">Meanwhile, the handler functions will almost certainly refer to the route type. Therefore,
    <i id="x-10">they</i> must be either in the same file where the route type is defined, or must import that
   file. If you follow the logic here, your entire application must essentially live in a single
   file!</p>
  <p id="x-11">Clearly this isn't what we want. So instead of using <codeph id="x-12">mkYesod</codeph>, the scaffolding
   site uses a decomposed version of the function. <codeph id="x-13">Foundation</codeph> calls
    <codeph id="x-14">mkYesodData</codeph>, which declares the route type and render function. Since it does
   not declare the dispatch function, the handler functions need not be in scope.
    <codeph id="x-15">Import.hs</codeph> imports <codeph id="x-16">Foundation.hs</codeph>, and all the handler modules
   import <codeph id="x-17">Import.hs</codeph>.</p>
  <p id="x-18">In <codeph id="x-19">Application.hs</codeph>, we call <codeph id="x-20">mkYesodDispatch</codeph>, which creates our
   dispatch function. For this to work, all handler functions must be in scope, so be sure to add an
   import statement for any new handler modules you create.</p>
  <p id="x-21">Other than than, Application.hs is pretty simple. It provides two functions: withDevelAppPort
   is used by <cmdname id="x-22">yesod devel</cmdname> to launch your app, and
    <codeph id="x-23">with&lt;YourAppName&gt;</codeph> is used by the executable to launch.</p>
  <p id="x-24">Foundation is much more exciting. It:</p>
  <ul id="ul_ero_hah_oe">
   <li id="x-25">Declares your foundation datatype</li>
   <li id="x-26">Declares a number of instances, such as Yesod, YesodAuth, and YesodPersist</li>
   <li id="x-27">Imports the messages files. If you look for the line start with <codeph id="x-28">mkMessage</codeph>,
    you will see that it specifies the folder containing the messages
    (<filepath id="x-29">messages</filepath>) and the default language (en, for English).</li>
  </ul>
  <p id="x-30">This is the right file for adding extra instances for your foundation, such as YesodAuthEmail
   or YesodBreadcrumbs.</p>
  <p id="x-31">We'll be referring back to this file later, as we discussed some of the special implementations
   of Yesod typeclass methods.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
