<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="09-goal-accomplishments"><title>0.9 goal accomplishments</title><body><foreign outputclass="markdown">We laid out a [list of 1.0 goals after the 0.8 release](http://www.yesodweb.com/blog/2011/04/announcing-yesod-0-8). Lets go through each of them and see how things are coming along:

* Documentation- We are really proud in the increase of breadth and quality of the documentation. We are now at the point where the book, in combination with supplemental documentation on the wiki and in blog posts is giving people the high-level documentation that they need. The most common complaint is now about the lack of detail in the haddocks. So we are going to make a push to improve the haddocks, and also link between them and the book.
* static file caching headers support - Done (mentioned in WAI section).
* Support for other template types as first class citizens- the templating system has undergone a re-organization that helps make the whole situation clearer, and adding new template systems should be more straightforward.
* Easier support for faster, non-blocking Javascript loading via something akin to require.js- not yet started.
* A complete i18n solution- shipped!
* Reassessing our forms package- yesod-forms were re-written to produce clearer error messages and additional features were added.
* Embedded objects in MongoDB- just started
* Performance improvements- Kazu has been our main source of performance improvements, submitting a patch for a faster SendFile, and writing a blazing-fast logger just before this release that we will soon incorporate. As always, we eagerly tackle any reports of slow spots in the framework. Our only other planned speedup is to use a faster system for route matching.

There are some additional 1.0 goals we are considering, including:

* easy validation of your persistent models
* better interactions between the models and forms
* improving the development mode experience

## Thanks you, Yesoders

I am really proud that we have accomplished our most important 1.0 goals already while cramming in so many other great changes. Thanks to everyone in the community that used the bleeding edge code, contributed bug reports, asked and answered questions, submitted pull requests, weighed in on design decisions, added things to the wiki, or suggested documentation improvements- you helped make this the by far the best Yesod release ever.
</foreign></body></topic>