<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="lucius-syntax"><title id="x-1">Lucius Syntax</title><conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x1">While Cassius uses a modified, whitespace-sensitive syntax for CSS, Lucius is true to
   the original. You can take any CSS file out there and it will be a valid Lucius file. There are,
   however, a few additions to Lucius:<ul id="ul_a847e33f-f3af-4fe1-9a3b-d7b2353921f7">
    <li id="x2">Like Cassius, we allow both variable and URL interpolation.</li>
    <li id="x3">CSS blocks are allowed to nest.</li>
    <li id="x-3">You can declare variables in your templates.</li>
   </ul></p>
  <p id="x4">Starting the with second point: let's say you want to have some special styling for
   some tags within your <codeph id="x5">article</codeph>. In plain ol' CSS, you'd have to
   write:<codeblock outputclass="css" id="x6">article code { background-color: grey; }
article p { text-indent: 2em; }
article a { text-decoration: none; }</codeblock>In
   this case, there aren't that many clauses, but having to type out article each time is still a
   bit of a nuisance. Imagine if you had a dozen or so of these. Not the worst thing in the world,
   but a bit of an annoyance. Lucius helps you out
   here:<codeblock outputclass="lucius" id="x7">article {
    code { background-color: grey; }
    p { text-indent: 2em; }
    a { text-decoration: none; }
}</codeblock></p>
  <p id="x-4">Having Lucius variables allows you to avoid repeating yourself. A simple example would be to
   define a commonly used color:</p>
  <codeblock id="x-5" outputclass="lucius">@textcolor: #ccc; /* just because we hate our users */
body { color: #{textcolor} }
a:link, a:visited { color: #{textcolor} }</codeblock>
  <p id="x8">Other than that, Lucius is identical to CSS.</p>
 </conbody></concept>