<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="getting-yesod"><title>Getting Yesod</title><conbody><p id="assume-installed">In order to use Yesod, you're going to need to install it on your system.
            In addition, you're going to need a Haskell development environment. The recommended
            approach is to install the <xref id="x3" href="http://hackage.haskell.org/platform/"
                scope="external" format="html">Haskell Platform</xref>. This will include the
            Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC), Cabal (the package installer, similar to Perl's CPAN or
            Ruby's Gems) and some core libraries.</p>
        <p>Besides the Haskell Platform, there are two other common approaches to getting started
            with Haskell: downloading GHC directly, and (on Linux) installing from your
            distribution's package manager. I'm going to advise against these:</p>
        <ul id="ul_brk_rrt_qd">
            <li>Yesod is actively tested on the most recent Haskell Platform. We try to make sure it
                works with other versions of GHC as well, but you may run into issues.</li>
            <li>The Haskell Platform includes some utilities (like alex and happy) that are not
                automatically installed with a normal GHC install.</li>
            <li>Most distributions have very out-of-date versions of GHC. At the time of writing,
                for example, Ubuntu provides GHC 6.12, while the newest GHC is 7.2.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>One other note: on Linux systems, the Haskell Platform will rely on some system
            libraries, and without them, you may get some funny error messages. Please make sure you
            install all the <xref href="http://www.vex.net/%7Etrebla/haskell/haskell-platform.xhtml"
                format="html" scope="external">required C libraries</xref>. On Debian-based systems,
            you would need to run:</p>
        <codeblock outputclass="shell">sudo apt-get install libedit-dev libbsd-dev libgmp3-dev zlib1g-dev freeglut3-dev</codeblock>
        <p>Once you have the Haskell Platform installed, it's time to get familiar with Cabal. This
            utility will automatically resolve dependencies for your packages, download them from
            Hackage (the package database) and install them. Make sure you have the cabal executable
            available in your PATH variable, and then you can install Yesod with just two
            commands:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><codeph>cabal update</codeph></dt>
                <dd>This will download a list of all the packages available on Hackage. You should
                    run this every few days to stay up-to-date.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt><codeph>cabal install yesod</codeph></dt>
                <dd>This will install Yesod and all its dependencies. Go get a cup of coffee.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl></conbody></concept>