<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="auth">
 <title id="x-1">Authentication/Authorization</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-4">For simple applications, checking permissions inside each handler function can be a
   simple, convenient approach. However, it doesn't scale well. Eventually, you're going to want to
   have a more declarative approach. Many systems out there define ACLs, special config files, and a
   lot of other hocus-pocus. In Yesod, it's just plain old Haskell. There are three methods
   involved:</p>
  <dl id="x-5">
   <dlentry id="x-6">
    <dt id="x-7">isWriteRequest</dt>
    <dd id="x-8">Determine if the current request is a "read" or "write" operations. By default,
     Yesod follows RESTful principles, and assumes <codeph id="x-3">GET</codeph>, <codeph id="x-21">HEAD</codeph>,
      <codeph id="x-22">OPTIONS</codeph>, and <codeph id="x-23">TRACE</codeph> requests are read-only, while all others
     are can write.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x-9">
    <dt id="x-10">isAuthorized</dt>
    <dd id="x-11">Takes a route (i.e., type-safe URL) and a boolean indicating whether or not the
     request is a write request. It returns an <codeph id="x-24">AuthResult</codeph>, which can have one of
     three values:<ul id="ul_tsw_jog_sd">
      <li id="x-12"><codeph id="x-25">Authorized</codeph></li>
      <li id="x-13"><codeph id="x-26">AuthenticationRequired</codeph></li>
      <li id="x-14"><codeph id="x-27">Unauthorized</codeph></li>
     </ul>By default, it returns <codeph id="x-28">Authorized</codeph> for all requests.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x-15">
    <dt id="x-16">authRoute</dt>
    <dd id="x-17">If <codeph id="x-29">isAuthorized</codeph> returns <codeph id="x-30">AuthenticationRequired</codeph>,
     then redirect to the given route. If no route is provided (the default), return a 403
     "Permission Denied" message.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <p id="x-18">These methods tie in nicely with the <apiname id="x-19">yesod-auth</apiname> package,
   which is used by the scaffolded site to provide a number of authentication options, such as
   OpenID, BrowserID, email, username and Twitter. We'll cover more concrete examples in the <xref id="x-20" href="../authentication-and-authorization/authentication-and-authorization.dita#authentication-and-authorization" format="dita">auth chapter</xref>.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
