<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="joinpath"><title id="x-1">joinPath</title><conbody id="x-2"><p id="jp1">In order to convert a type-safe URL into a text value, Yesod uses two helper functions. The first is the <codeph id="x1">renderRoute</codeph> method of the <codeph id="x2">RenderRoute</codeph> typeclass. Every type-safe URL is an instance of this typeclass. <codeph id="x3">renderRoute</codeph> simply converts a value into a list of path pieces. For example, our <codeph id="x4">SomePathR</codeph> from above would be converted into ["some", "path"].</p><note id="x5" type="other" othertype="advanced"><p id="jp2">Actually, renderRoute produces both the path pieces and a list of query-string parameters. The default instances of renderRoute always provide an empty list of query string parameters. However, it is possible to override this. One notable case is the static subsite, which puts a hash of the file contents in the query string for caching purposes.</p></note><p id="jp3">The other function is the <codeph id="x6">joinPath</codeph> method of the Yesod typeclass. This function takes the four arguments: the foundation value, the application root, a list of path segments and a list of query string parameters, and returns a textual URL. The default implementation does the "right thing": it separates the path pieces by forward slashes, prepends the application root and appends the query string.</p><p id="jp4">If you are happy with default URL rendering, you should not need to modify it. However, if you want to modify URL rendering to do things like append a trailing slash, this would be the place to do it.</p></conbody></concept>