<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="some-simple-settings">
 <title id="x-1">Some Simple Settings</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">Not everything in the Yesod typeclass is complicated. Some methods are simple
   functions. Let's just go through the list:</p>
  <dl id="x-4">
   <dlentry id="x-5">
    <dt id="x-6">encryptKey</dt>
    <dd id="x-7">Yesod uses client-side sessions, which are stored in encrypted, cryptographically-hashed
     cookies. Well, as long as you provide an encryption key. If this function returns Nothing, then
     sessions are disabled. This can be a useful optimization on sites that don't need session
     facilities, as it avoids an encrypt/decrypt pair on each request.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x-8">
    <dt id="x-9">clientSessionDuration</dt>
    <dd id="x-10">How long a session should last for. By default, this is two hours.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x-11">
    <dt id="x-12">sessionIpAddress</dt>
    <dd id="x-13">By default, sessions are tied to an individual IP address. If your users are sitting behind
     a proxy server, this can cause trouble when their IP suddenly changes. This setting lets you
     disable this security feature.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x-14">
    <dt id="x-15">cookiePath</dt>
    <dd id="x-16">What paths within your current domain to set cookies for. The default is "/", and will
     almost always be correct. One exception might be when you're serving from a subpath within a
     domain (like our <xref id="x-17" href="rendering-and-parsing-urls.dita#rendering-and-parsing-urls/rpu4" format="dita">wiki example above</xref>).</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x-18">
    <dt id="x-19">maximumContentLength</dt>
    <dd id="x-20">To prevent Denial of Server (DoS) attacks, Yesod will limit the size of request bodies. Some
     of the time, you'll want to bump that limit for some routes (e.g., a file upload page). This is
     where you'd do that.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>yepnopeJs</dt>
    <dd>You can specify the location of the <xref href="http://yepnopejs.com/" format="html"
      scope="external">yepnope</xref> Javascript library. If this is given, then yepnope will be
     used to asynchronously load all of the Javascript on your page.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
