<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="closer-look-at-types"><title>Closer look at types</title><conbody>
  <p id="x1">So far, we've spoken about Person and PersonId without really explaining what they are. In the
   simplest sense, for a SQL-only system, the PersonId could just be <codeph id="x2">type PersonId =
    Int64</codeph>. However, that means there is nothing binding a PersonId at the type level to the
   Person entity. Instead, it would be very easy to accidently use a PersonId and get a Car. In
   order to model this relationship, we use phantom types. So, our next naive step would be:</p>
  <codeblock id="x3" outputclass="haskell">newtype Key entity = Key Int64
type PersonId = Key Person</codeblock>
  <note id="x4">Prior to Persistent 0.6, we used associated types instead of phantom types. You could solve
   the problem in that direction as well, but phantoms worked out better.</note>
  <p id="x5">And that works out really well, until you get to a backend that doesn't use Int64 for its IDs.
   And that's not just a theoretical question; MongoDB uses ByteStrings instead. So what we need is
   a key value that can contain an Int and a ByteString. Seems like a great time for a sum type:</p>
  <codeblock id="x6" outputclass="haskell">data Key entity = KeyInt Int64 | KeyByteString ByteString</codeblock>
  <p id="x7">But that's just asking for trouble. Next we'll have a backend that uses timestamps, so we'll
   need to add something to Key. This could go on for a while. Fortunately, we already have a sum
   type intended for representing arbitrary data: PersistValue. So now, we can use:</p>
  <codeblock outputclass="haskell" id="x8">newtype Key entity = Key PersistValue</codeblock>
  <p id="x9">But this has another problem. Let's say we have a web application that takes an ID as a
   parameter from the user. It will need to receive that parameter as Text and then try to convert
   it to a Key. Well, that's simple: write a function to convert a Text to a PersistValue, and then
   wrap the result in the Key constructor, right?</p>
  <p id="x10">Wrong. We tried this, and there's a big problem with it. We end up getting Keys that could
   never be. For example, if we're dealing with SQL, a key must be an integer. But the approach
   described above would allow arbitrary textual data in. The result was a bunch of 500 server
   errors as the database choked on comparing an integer column to text.</p>
  <p id="x11">So what we need is a way to convert text to a Key, but have it dependent on the rules of the
   backend in question. And once phrased that way, the answer is simple: just add another phantom.
   The real, actual definition of Key in Persistent is:</p>
  <codeblock id="x12" outputclass="haskell">newtype Key backend entity = Key { unKey :: PersistValue }</codeblock>
  <p id="x13">This works great: we can have a <codeph id="x14">Text -&gt; Key MongoDB entity</codeph> function and a
    <codeph id="x15">Text -&gt; Key SqlPersist entity</codeph> function, and everything runs smoothly. But now
   we have a new problem: relations. Let's say we want to represent blogs and blog posts. We would
   use the entity definition:</p>
  <codeblock outputclass="entities" id="x16">Blog
    title Text
Post
    title Text
    blogId BlogId</codeblock>
  <p id="x17">But what would that look like in terms of our Key datatype?</p>
  <codeblock id="x18" outputclass="haskell">data Blog = Blog { blogTitle :: Text }
data Post = Post { postTitle :: Text, postBlogId :: Key &lt;what goes here?&gt; Blog }</codeblock>
  <p id="x19">We need something to fill in as the backend. In theory, we could hardcode this to SqlPersist,
   or Mongo, but then our datatypes will only work for a single backend. For an individual
   application, that might be acceptable, but what about libraries defining datatypes to be used by
   multiple applications, using multiple backends?</p>
  <p id="x20">So thinks got a little more complicated. Our types are actually:</p>
  <codeblock id="x21" outputclass="haskell">data BlogGeneric backend = Blog { blogTitle :: Text }
data PostGeneric backend = Post { postTitle :: Text, postBlogId :: Key backend (BlogGeneric backend) }</codeblock>
  <p id="x22">Notice that we still keep the short names for the constructors and the records. Finally, to
   give a simple interface for normal code, we define some type synonyms:</p>
  <codeblock outputclass="haskell" id="x23">type Blog = BlogGeneric SqlPersist
type BlogId = Key SqlPersist Blog
type Post = PostGeneric SqlPersist
type PostId = Key SqlPersist Post</codeblock>
  <p id="x24">And no, SqlPersist isn't hard-coded into Persistent anywhere. That sqlSettings parameter you've
   been passing to mkPersist is what tells us to use SqlPersist. Mongo code will use mongoSettings
   instead.</p>
  <p id="x25">This might be quite complicated under the surface, but user code hardly ever touches this. Look
   back through this whole chapter: not once did we need to deal with the Key or Generic stuff
   directly. The most common place for it to pop up is in compiler error messages. So it's important
   to be aware that this exists, but it shouldn't affect you on a day-to-day basis.</p>
 </conbody></concept>