<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="hello-world"><title id="x-1">Hello World</title><conbody id="x-2"><p id="hw1">Writing subsites is a little bit tricky, involving a number of different types. Let's start off with a simple Hello World subsite:</p><codeblock id="x1" outputclass="haskell">-- START
{-# LANGUAGE QuasiQuotes, TypeFamilies, MultiParamTypeClasses #-}
{-# LANGUAGE TemplateHaskell, FlexibleInstances, OverloadedStrings #-}
import Yesod

-- Subsites have foundations just like master sites.
data HelloSub = HelloSub

-- We have a familiar analogue from mkYesod, with just one extra parameter.
-- We'll discuss that later.
mkYesodSub "HelloSub" [] [parseRoutes|
/ SubRootR GET
|]

-- And we'll spell out the handler type signature.
getSubRootR :: Yesod master =&gt; GHandler HelloSub master RepHtml
getSubRootR = defaultLayout [whamlet|Welcome to the subsite!|]

-- And let's create a master site that calls it.
data Master = Master
    { getHelloSub :: HelloSub
    }

mkYesod "Master" [parseRoutes|
/ RootR GET
/subsite SubsiteR HelloSub getHelloSub
|]

instance Yesod Master where
    approot _ = ""

-- Spelling out type signature again.
getRootR :: GHandler sub Master RepHtml -- could also replace sub with Master
getRootR = defaultLayout [whamlet|
&lt;h1&gt;Welcome to the homepage
&lt;p&gt;
    Feel free to visit the #
    &lt;a href=@{SubsiteR SubRootR}&gt;subsite
    \ as well.
|]

main = warpDebug 3000 $ Master HelloSub
</codeblock><p id="hw2">This very simple example actually shows most of the complications involved in creating a subsite. Like a normal Yesod application, everything in a subsite is centered around a foundation datatype, <codeph id="x2">HelloSub</codeph> in our case. We then use <codeph id="x3">mkYesodSub</codeph>, in much the same way that we use <codeph id="x4">mkYesod</codeph>, to create the route datatype and the dispatch/render functions. (We'll come back to that extra parameter in a second.)</p><p id="hw3">What's interesting is the type signature of <codeph id="x5">getSubRootR</codeph>. Up until now, we have tried to ignore the <codeph id="x6">GHandler</codeph> datatype, or <i id="x7">if</i> we need to acknowledge its existence, pretend like the first two type arguments are always the same. Now we get to finally acknowledge the truth about this funny datatype.</p><p id="hw4">A handler function always has two foundation types associated with it: the subsite and the master site. When you write a normal application, <b id="x8">those two datatypes are the same</b>. However, when you are working in a subsite, they will necessarily be different. So the type signature for <codeph id="x9">getSubRootR</codeph> uses <codeph id="x10">HelloSub</codeph> for the first argument and <codeph id="x11">master</codeph> for the second.</p><p id="hw5">The <codeph id="x12">defaultLayout</codeph> function is part of the Yesod typeclass. Therefore, in order to call it, the <codeph id="x13">master</codeph> type argument must be an instance of <codeph id="x14">Yesod</codeph>. The advantage of this approach is that any modifications to the master site's <codeph id="x15">defaultLayout</codeph> method will automatically be reflected in subsites.</p><p id="hw6">When we embed a subsite in our master site route definition, we need to specify four pieces of information: the route to use as the base of the subsite (in this case, <codeph id="x16">/subsite</codeph>), the constructor for the subsite routes (<codeph id="x17">SubsiteR</codeph>), the subsite foundation data type (<codeph id="x18">HelloSub</codeph>) and a function that takes a master foundation value and returns a subsite foundation value (<codeph id="x19">getHelloSub</codeph>).</p><p id="hw7">In the definition of getRootR, we can see how the route constructor gets used. In a sense, <codeph id="x20">SubsiteR</codeph> promotes any subsite route to a master site route, making it possible to safely link to it from any master site template.</p></conbody></concept>