<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="i18n"><title id="x-1">i18n</title><conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x1">There have been a few references to i18n in this chapter. The topic will get more
   thorough coverage in <xref id="x-3" href="../internationalization/internationalization.dita#internationalization" format="dita">its
    own chapter</xref>, but since it has such a profound effect on <codeph id="x-4">yesod-form</codeph>, I
   wanted to give a brief overview. The idea behind i18n in Yesod is to have data types represent
   messages. Each site can have an instance of <codeph id="x-5">RenderMessage</codeph> for a given datatype
   which will translate that message based on a list of languages the user accepts. As a result of
   all this, there are a few things you should be aware of:</p>
  <ul id="ul_pgx_iyg_md">
   <li id="x2">There is an automatic instance of <codeph id="x-6">RenderMessage</codeph> for
     <codeph id="x-7">Text</codeph> in every site, so you can just use plain strings if you don't care about
    i18n support. However, you may need to use explicit type signatures occassionally.</li>
   <li id="x3"><codeph id="x-8">yesod-form</codeph> expresses all of its messages in terms of the
     <codeph id="x-9">FormMessage</codeph> datatype. Therefore, to use <codeph id="x-10">yesod-form</codeph>, you'll
    need to have an appropriate <codeph id="x-11">RenderMessage</codeph> instance. A simple one that uses the
    default English translations would
    be:<codeblock id="x4" outputclass="haskell">instance RenderMessage MyApp FormMessage where
    renderMessage _ _ = defaultFormMessage</codeblock>This
    is provided automatically by the scaffolded site.</li>
   <li id="x5">In order to allow multiple different message types to co-exist, we use an existential
    type called <codeph id="x-12">SomeMessage</codeph>. You will occassionally need to wrap your values inside
    of it, though this is not common in normal library use.</li>
  </ul>
 </conbody></concept>