<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="running-forms"><title id="x-1">Running forms</title><conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x1">At some point, we're going to need to take our beautiful forms and produce some results. There
   are a number of different functions available for this, each with its own purpose. I'll go
   through them, starting with the most common.</p>
  <dl id="x2">
   <dlentry id="x3">
    <dt id="x4">runFormPost</dt>
    <dd id="x5">This will run your form against any submitted <codeph id="x-3">POST</codeph>
     parameters. If this is not a <codeph id="x-4">POST</codeph> submission, it will return a
      <codeph id="x-5">FormMissing</codeph>. This automatically inserts a security token as a hidden
     form field to avoid <xref id="x6"
      href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery" format="html" scope="external"
      >CSRF</xref> attacks.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x7">
    <dt id="x8">runFormGet</dt>
    <dd id="x9">Same as <codeph id="x-6">runFormPost</codeph>, for GET parameters. In order to
     distinguish a normal <codeph id="x-7">GET</codeph> page load from a <codeph id="x-8"
      >GET</codeph> submission, it includes an extra <codeph id="x-9">_hasdata</codeph> hidden field
     in the form.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x10">
    <dt id="x11">runFormPostNoNonce</dt>
    <dd id="x12">Same as <codeph id="x-10">runFormPost</codeph>, but does not include (or require) the CSRF
     security token.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x13">
    <dt id="x14">generateFormPost</dt>
    <dd id="x15">Instead of binding to existing <codeph id="x-11">POST</codeph> parameters, acts as if there
     are none. This can be useful when you want to generate a new form after a previous form was
     submitted, such as in a wizard.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x16">
    <dt id="x17">generateFormGet</dt>
    <dd id="x18">Same as <codeph id="x-12">generateFormPost</codeph>, but for <codeph id="x-13">GET</codeph>.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <p id="x19">The return type from the first three is <codeph id="x20">((FormResult a, Widget),
    Enctype)</codeph>. The <codeph id="x-14">Widget</codeph> will already have any validation errors and
   previously submitted values.</p>
 </conbody></concept>
