<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title id="x-1">Email</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">For many use cases, third-party authentication of email will be sufficient. Occassionally,
   you'll want users to actual create passwords on your site. The scaffolded site does not include
   this setup, because:</p>
  <ul id="ul_mmf_nsk_pe">
   <li id="x-4">In order to securely accept passwords, you need to be running over SSL. Many users are not
    serving their sites over SSL.</li>
   <li id="x-5">While the email backend properly salts and hashes passwords, a compromised database could
    still be problematic. Again, we make no assumptions that Yesod users are following secure
    deployment practices.</li>
   <li id="x-6">You need to have a working system for sending email. Many web servers these days are
                not equipped to deal with all of the spam protection measures used by mail
                    servers.<note id="x-7">The example below will use the system's built-in <cmdname
                        id="x-8">sendmail</cmdname> executable. If you would like to avoid the
                    hassle of dealing with an email server yourself, you can use Amazon SES. There
                    is a package called <apiname id="x-9">mime-mail-ses</apiname> which provides a
                    drop-in replacement for the sendmail code used below. This is the approach we
                    use on the Haskellers.com site.</note></li>
  </ul>
  <p id="x-10">But assuming you are able to meet these demands, and you want to have a separate password login
   specifically for your site, Yesod offers a built-in backend. It requires quite a bit of code to
   set up, since it needs to store passwords securely in the database and send a number of different
   emails to users (verify account, password retrieval, etc.).</p>
  <p id="x-11">Let's have a look at a site that provides email authentication, storing passwords in a
   Persistent SQLite database.</p>
  <codeblock id="x-12" outputclass="haskell">{-# LANGUAGE OverloadedStrings, TypeFamilies, QuasiQuotes, GADTs,
             TemplateHaskell, MultiParamTypeClasses, FlexibleContexts #-}
import Yesod
import Yesod.Auth
import Yesod.Auth.Email
import Database.Persist.Sqlite
import Database.Persist.TH
import Data.Text (Text)
import Network.Mail.Mime
import qualified Data.Text.Lazy.Encoding
import Text.Shakespeare.Text (stext)
import Text.Blaze.Renderer.Utf8 (renderHtml)
import Text.Hamlet (shamlet)
import Data.Maybe (isJust)
import Control.Monad (join)

share [mkPersist sqlSettings, mkMigrate "migrateAll"] [persist|
User
    email Text
    password Text Maybe -- Password may not be set yet
    verkey Text Maybe -- Used for resetting passwords
    verified Bool
    UniqueUser email
|]

data MyEmailApp = MyEmailApp Connection

mkYesod "MyEmailApp" [parseRoutes|
/ RootR GET
/auth AuthR Auth getAuth
|]

instance Yesod MyEmailApp where
    -- Emails will include links, so be sure to include an approot so that
    -- the links are valid!
    approot _ = "http://localhost:3000"

instance RenderMessage MyEmailApp FormMessage where
    renderMessage _ _ = defaultFormMessage

-- Set up Persistent
instance YesodPersist MyEmailApp where
    type YesodPersistBackend MyEmailApp = SqlPersist
    runDB f = liftIOHandler $ do
        MyEmailApp conn &lt;- getYesod
        runSqlConn f conn

instance YesodAuth MyEmailApp where
    type AuthId MyEmailApp = UserId

    loginDest _ = RootR
    logoutDest _ = RootR
    authPlugins = [authEmail]

    -- Need to find the UserId for the given email address.
    getAuthId creds = runDB $ do
        x &lt;- insertBy $ User (credsIdent creds) Nothing Nothing False
        return $ Just $
            case x of
                Left (userid, _) -&gt; userid -- newly added user
                Right userid -&gt; userid -- existing user

-- Here's all of the email-specific code
instance YesodAuthEmail MyEmailApp where
    type AuthEmailId MyEmailApp = UserId

    addUnverified email verkey =
        runDB $ insert $ User email Nothing (Just verkey) False

    sendVerifyEmail email _ verurl =
        liftIO $ renderSendMail (emptyMail $ Address Nothing "noreply")
            { mailTo = [Address Nothing email]
            , mailHeaders =
                [ ("Subject", "Verify your email address")
                ]
            , mailParts = [[textPart, htmlPart]]
            }
      where
        textPart = Part
            { partType = "text/plain; charset=utf-8"
            , partEncoding = None
            , partFilename = Nothing
            , partContent = Data.Text.Lazy.Encoding.encodeUtf8 [stext|
Please confirm your email address by clicking on the link below.

\#{verurl}

Thank you
|]
            , partHeaders = []
            }
        htmlPart = Part
            { partType = "text/html; charset=utf-8"
            , partEncoding = None
            , partFilename = Nothing
            , partContent = renderHtml [shamlet|
&lt;p&gt;Please confirm your email address by clicking on the link below.
&lt;p&gt;
    &lt;a href=#{verurl}&gt;#{verurl}
&lt;p&gt;Thank you
|]
            , partHeaders = []
            }
    getVerifyKey = runDB . fmap (join . fmap userVerkey) . get
    setVerifyKey uid key = runDB $ update uid [UserVerkey =. Just key]
    verifyAccount uid = runDB $ do
        mu &lt;- get uid
        case mu of
            Nothing -&gt; return Nothing
            Just u -&gt; do
                update uid [UserVerified =. True]
                return $ Just uid
    getPassword = runDB . fmap (join . fmap userPassword) . get
    setPassword uid pass = runDB $ update uid [UserPassword =. Just pass]
    getEmailCreds email = runDB $ do
        mu &lt;- getBy $ UniqueUser email
        case mu of
            Nothing -&gt; return Nothing
            Just (uid, u) -&gt; return $ Just EmailCreds
                { emailCredsId = uid
                , emailCredsAuthId = Just uid
                , emailCredsStatus = isJust $ userPassword u
                , emailCredsVerkey = userVerkey u
                }
    getEmail = runDB . fmap (fmap userEmail) . get

getRootR :: Handler RepHtml
getRootR = do
    maid &lt;- maybeAuthId
    defaultLayout [whamlet|
&lt;p&gt;Your current auth ID: #{show maid}
$maybe _ &lt;- maid
    &lt;p&gt;
        &lt;a href=@{AuthR LogoutR}&gt;Logout
$nothing
    &lt;p&gt;
        &lt;a href=@{AuthR LoginR}&gt;Go to the login page
|]

main :: IO ()
main = withSqliteConn "email.db3" $ \conn -&gt; do
    runSqlConn (runMigration migrateAll) conn
    warpDebug 3000 $ MyEmailApp conn</codeblock>
 </conbody>
</concept>
