<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="why-now"><title>Why now?</title><conbody>
  <p id="x1">Well, why not? Actually, it's a very good question. We are quickly approaching the 0.9 release
   of Yesod. We're waiting on the release of a few libraries that we're very excited to be using
   (I'll leave that as a surprise for later), and hopefully within the next week or two we'll be
   ready to go live. 0.9 is a very important release: it's our last milestone before the 1.0
   release.</p>
  <p id="x2">Over this last development iteration, you'll be interested to know that there were <b id="x3">no
    breaking changes in yesod-core</b>. I consider this a huge milestone: the base Yesod API has
   stabilized to such an extent that we didn't feel the need to break people's code this time. There
   were still changes in the underlying libraries: removal of polymoprhic Hamlet, a greatly improved
   forms API, drastically cleaned up Persistent architecture, etc. But the core of our framework is
   stabilizing.</p>
  <p id="x4">Now is when we're getting very serious about taking Yesod to the next level. We have all the
   raw features we want. Most of them have been there for over a year. We've had a number of
   iterations to clean things up. We've found high quality libraries we can rely on: text,
   blaze-builder, enumerator.</p>
  <p id="x5">Our focus at this point is to refine Yesod. We're focusing on things like more helpful logging,
   better deployment strategies, increased performance. In the next two weeks, we'll be tying off a
   very high-quality release, and beginning on the last touch-ups before our 1.0 release.</p>
 </conbody></concept>