<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="resource-name"><title id="x-1">Resource name</title><conbody id="x-2"><p id="rn1">Each resource pattern also has a name associated with it. That
                name will become the constructor for the <term id="x1">type safe
                    URL</term> datatype associated with your application.
                Therefore, it has to start with a capital letter. By
                convention, these resource names all end with a capital R.
                There is nothing forcing you to do this, it is just
                common practice.</p><p id="rn2">The exact definition of our constructor depends upon the
                resource pattern it is attached to. Whatever datatypes are
                included in single and multi pieces of the pattern become
                arguments to the datatype. This gives us a 1-to-1
                correspondence between our type safe URL values and valid URLs
                in our application.</p><note id="x2" type="other" othertype="advanced"><p id="rn3">This doesn't necessarily mean that <i id="x3">every</i> value
                    is a working page, just that it is is a potentially valid
                    URL. As an example, that value <codeph id="x4">PersonR
                        "Michael"</codeph> may not resolve to a valid page if
                    there is no Michael in the database.</p></note><p id="rn4">Let's get some real examples going here. If you had the resource
                patterns <codeph id="x5">/person/#String</codeph> named
                <codeph id="x6">PersonR</codeph>, <codeph id="x7">/year/#Int</codeph> named
                <codeph id="x8">YearR</codeph> and <codeph id="x9">/page/faq</codeph> named
                <codeph id="x10">FaqR</codeph>, you would end up with a route data type
                roughly looking like:</p><codeblock id="x11" outputclass="haskell">data MyRoute = PersonR String
             | YearR Int
             | FaqR</codeblock><p id="rn5">If a user requests the relative URL of
                 <codeph id="x12">/year/2009</codeph>, Yesod will convert it into the value
                 <codeph id="x13">YearR 2009</codeph>. <codeph id="x14">/person/Michael</codeph> becomes
                 <codeph id="x15">PersonR "Michael"</codeph> and <codeph id="x16">/page/faq</codeph>
                 becomes <codeph id="x17">FaqR</codeph>. On the other hand,
                 <codeph id="x18">/year/two-thousand-nine</codeph>,
                 <codeph id="x19">/person/michael/snoyman</codeph> and
                 <codeph id="x20">/page/FAQ</codeph> would all result in 404 errors without
                 ever seeing your code.</p><note id="x21" type="other" othertype="advanced"><p id="rn6">Throughout the above discussion, I used the terms type-safe URLs and routes datatype interchangeably. Don't be confused, they are the exact same thing. They just sound better in different contexts.</p></note></conbody></concept>