<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="short-circuiting"><title>Short Circuiting</title><conbody><p id="ghandler7">The following functions immediately end execution of a handler function and return a result to the user.</p><dl id="x1"><dlentry id="x2"><dt id="x3">redirect</dt><dd id="x4">Sends a redirect response to the user. You can specify whether you want a 301, 302 or 303 status code. This function takes a type-safe URL as a destination. There are also <codeph id="x5">redirectString</codeph> and <codeph id="x6">redirectParams</codeph> variants.</dd></dlentry><dlentry id="x7"><dt id="x8">notFound</dt><dd id="x9">Return a 404 response. This can be useful if a user requests a database value that doesn't exist.</dd></dlentry><dlentry id="x10"><dt id="x11">permissionDenied</dt><dd id="x12">Return a 403 response with a specific error message.</dd></dlentry><dlentry id="x13"><dt id="x14">invalidArgs</dt><dd id="x15">A 400 response with a list of invalid arguments.</dd></dlentry><dlentry id="x16"><dt id="x17">sendFile</dt><dd id="x18">Sends a file from the filesystem with a specified content type. This is the preferred way to send static files, since the underlying WAI handler may be able to optimize this to a <codeph id="x19">sendfile</codeph> system call. Using <codeph id="x20">readFile</codeph> for sending static files should not be necessary.</dd></dlentry><dlentry id="x21"><dt id="x22">sendResponse</dt><dd id="x23">Send a normal HasReps response with a 200 status code. This is really just a convenience for when you need to break out of some deeply nested code with an immediate response.</dd></dlentry></dl></conbody></concept>