<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="the-ghandler-monad"><title>The GHandler Monad</title><conbody><p id="ghandler1">The vast majority of code you write in Yesod sits in the GHandler monad. If you are approaching this from an MVC (MVC) background, your GHandler code is the Controller. Some important points to know about GHandler:</p><ul id="x1"><li id="x2">It is an instance of <codeph id="x3">MonadIO</codeph>, so you can run any IO action in your handlers with <codeph id="x4">liftIO</codeph>. By the way, <codeph id="x5">liftIO</codeph> is exported by the <codeph id="x6">Yesod</codeph> module for your convenience.</li><li id="x7">GHandler is really a <term id="x8">monad transformer stack</term> providing a number of different components.</li><li id="x9">A Reader component provides access to immutable information about a request and the environment: the foundation value, request headers and much more.</li><li id="x10">A Writer component allows you to add extra response headers.</li><li id="x11">A State component deals with session variables, allowing them to be both read, written and deleted. Sessions are discussed in <xref id="x12" href="../../yesod-web-framework-book/sessions/sessions.dita">their own chapter</xref>.</li><li id="x13">An Error component deals with <term id="x14">short-circuiting</term>. Despite the name, these are not necessarily errors: you can use this for sending static files and redirecting in addition to sending error responses.</li></ul><note id="x15" type="other" othertype="advanced"><p id="ghandler1a">And on top of all this, there is in fact a
                larger generalization from GHandler: a GGHandler. While a
                GHandler wraps around an Iteratee, which allows it to read the
                request body, a GGHandler can wrap around any monad, including
                directly around IO. This generalization is necessary for
                dealing with catching exceptions. We will discuss this in more
                depth later. </p></note><p id="ghandler2">The remainder of this chapter will give a brief introduction to some of the most common functions living in the GHandler monad. I am specifically <i id="x16">not</i> covering any of the session functions; that will be addressed in the <xref id="x17" href="../../yesod-web-framework-book/sessions/sessions.dita">sessions chapter</xref>.</p></conbody></concept>