<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="routing"><title id="x-1">Routing</title><conbody id="x-2"><p id="routing1">Like most modern web frameworks, Yesod follows a <xref id="x1" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Front_Controller_pattern" scope="external" format="html">front controller pattern</xref>. This means that every request to a Yesod application enters at the same point and is routed from there. As a contrast, in systems like PHP and ASP you often times create a number of different files, and the web server automatically directs requests to the relevant file.</p>
        <p id="x-3">In addition, Yesod uses a declarative style for specifying routes. In our example above,
            this looked like:</p>
        <codeblock id="x-4" outputclass="haskell">mkYesod "HelloWorld" [parseRoutes|
/ HomeR GET
|]</codeblock>
        <p id="x-5">In English, all this means is: <q id="x-6">In the HelloWorld application, create one route. I'd like
                to call it HomeR, it should listen for requests to <codeph id="x-7">/</codeph> (the root of
                the application), and should answer GET requests</q>. We call HomeR a
                <term id="x-8">resource</term>, which is where the "R" suffix comes from.<note id="x-9">The R suffix
                on resource names is simply convention, but it's a fairly universally followed
                convention. It makes it just a bit easier to read and understand code.</note></p>
        <p id="x-10">As mentioned, most modern web frameworks have some kind of routing system. Most
            of them, however, are <i id="x-11">not</i> declarative. Let's take a quick example from
                Django:<!--FIXME Django really is declarative, this isn't correct. I think I narrowed down four advantages for yesod:

the advantages for yesod i see are: more efficient parsing, can catch mistakes like
      overlapping routes, a bit terser, automatic data marshaling\u0000
--><lq id="x-12"><codeblock id="x-13" outputclass="python">urlpatterns = patterns('',
    (r'^articles/2003/$', 'news.views.special_case_2003'),
    (r'^articles/(\d{4})/$', 'news.views.year_archive'),
    (r'^articles/(\d{4})/(\d{2})/$', 'news.views.month_archive'),
    (r'^articles/(\d{4})/(\d{2})/(\d+)/$', 'news.views.article_detail'),
)</codeblock><cite id="x-14">https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/urls/</cite></lq>These routes are
            specified via a regular expression. This is mostly declarative, but the fact is that
            routes are really being resolved by running some extra code. This has some practical
            ramifications. Firstly, there's no great ways to optimize the routing: the only way to
            determine which route matches is to go through every single regular expression linearly.
            Yesod's routes are broken down into individual pieces, and can thus be optimized for
            routing.</p>
        <p id="x-15">But the more important issue is overlapping. Yesod will stop you from accidently writing
            two routes that would match the same URL. This fits in with Yesod's overall philosophy
            of catching as many errors at possible at compile time.</p>
        <note id="x-16">You're probably wondering what the Django example would look like in Yesod. It looks
            very similar
            actually:<codeblock id="x-17" outputclass="haskell">/articles/2003 News2003R GET
/articles/#Year NewsYearR GET
/articles/#Year/#Month NewsMonthR GET
/articles/#Year/#Month/#ArticleId NewsArticleR GET</codeblock>But
            if you notice, the first two routes overlap! By default, Yesod will give you a compiler
            error about this. If you really want to do it anyway, you can replace
                <codeph id="x-18">parseRoutes</codeph> with <codeph id="x-19">parseRoutesNoCheck</codeph>.</note>
        <p id="x-20">One other quick note: you may have noticed that parseRoutes is called with a bit of a
            strange syntax with the square brackets and pipes. That's because it's a
                <term id="x-21">quasi-quoter</term>. Quasiquotation is a powerful Haskell feature that allows
            you to embed any arbitrary syntax within your Haskell source files. This allows us to
            keep our route declarations short and sweet.</p>
        <p id="x-22">A lot of the examples you'll see in the book will use quasi-quotation in one way or
            another. However, many developers prefer to keep their code and declarations separate.
            Yesod also lets you declare your routes in external files using <term id="x-23">Template
                Haskell</term>:<codeblock id="x-24" outputclass="haskell">mkYesod "HelloWorld" $(parseRoutesFile "routes")</codeblock></p>
        <p id="x-25">In general, we recommend for actual development to use external files. But for short
            examples and tutorials, quasi-quotation is a great fit.</p></conbody></concept>
