<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title id="x-1">Comparison with Django</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">As mentioned, most modern web frameworks have some kind of routing system. For contrast, let's
   take a quick example from
     Django:<lq id="x-4"><codeblock id="x-5" outputclass="python">urlpatterns = patterns('',
    (r'^articles/2003/$', 'news.views.special_case_2003'),
    (r'^articles/(\d{4})/$', 'news.views.year_archive'),
    (r'^articles/(\d{4})/(\d{2})/$', 'news.views.month_archive'),
    (r'^articles/(\d{4})/(\d{2})/(\d+)/$', 'news.views.article_detail'),
)</codeblock><cite id="x-6">https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/urls/</cite></lq>These
   routes are specified via a regular expression. While this is declarative, the routes are really
   being resolved by running some extra code. This has some practical ramifications. Firstly,
   there's no great way to optimize the routing: the only way to determine which route matches is to
   go through every single regular expression linearly. Yesod's routes are broken down into
   individual pieces and routed to based on an efficient data structure.</p>
  <p id="x-7">But a more important issue is overlapping. Yesod will stop you from accidently writing two
   routes that would match the same URL. This fits in with Yesod's overall philosophy of catching as
   many errors as possible at compile time.</p>
  <note id="x-8">You're probably wondering what the Django example would look like in Yesod. It looks very
   similar
   actually:<codeblock id="x-9" outputclass="haskell">/articles/!2003 News2003R GET
/articles/#Year NewsYearR GET
/articles/#Year/#Month NewsMonthR GET
/articles/#Year/#Month/#ArticleId NewsArticleR GET</codeblock>But
   if you notice, the first two routes overlap! By adding the exclamation point in front of the
    <codeph id="x-10">2003</codeph>, you can tell Yesod to ignore the overlapping for this route.</note>
 </conbody>
 <!--FIXME: Ask Simon: should this be taken out entirely?-->
</concept>
