<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="running"><title id="x-1">Running</title><conbody id="x-2"><p id="running1">Once again we mention <codeph id="x-4">HelloWorld</codeph> in our main function. Our
            foundation contains all the information we need to route and respond to requests in our
            application; now we just need to convert it into something that can run. A useful
            function for this in Yesod is <codeph id="x-5">warpDebug</codeph>, which runs the Warp webserver
            with debug output enabled on the specified port (here, it's 3000).</p><p id="running3">One of the features of Yesod is that you aren't tied down to a single deployment
            strategy. Yesod is built on top of the Web Application Interface (WAI), allowing it to
            run on FastCGI, SCGI, Warp, or even as a desktop application using the Webkit library.
            We'll discuss some of these options in the <xref id="x2" href="../deploying-your-webapp/deploying-your-webapp.dita">deployment
            chapter</xref>. And at the end of this chapter, we will explain the <xref id="x3" href="../basics/development-server.dita">development server</xref>.</p>
        <p id="x-3">Warp is the premiere deployment option for Yesod. It is a lightweight, highly efficient
            web server developed specifically for hosting Yesod. It is also used outside of Yesod
            for other Haskell development (both framework and non-framework applications), as well
            as a standard file server in a number of production environments.</p></conbody></concept>