<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="scaffolded-site">
  <title id="x-1">The scaffolded site</title>
  <conbody id="x-2">
    <p id="x-3">Installing Yesod will give you both the Yesod library, as well as a <codeph id="x-4">yesod</codeph>
      executable. This executable accepts a few commands, but the first one you'll want to be
      acquainted with is <codeph id="x-5">yesod init</codeph>. It will ask you some questions, and then
      generate a folder containing the default <term id="x-6">scaffolded site</term>. Inside that folder, you
      can run <codeph id="x-7">cabal install</codeph> to build any extra dependency, and then <xref id="x-8" href="development-server.dita#development-server" format="dita"><codeph id="x-9">yesod
        devel</codeph></xref> to run your site. Here is an example session with the scaffolding
      tool:</p>
    <codeblock id="x-10">Welcome to the Yesod scaffolder.
I'm going to be creating a skeleton Yesod project for you.

What is your name? We're going to put this in the cabal and LICENSE files.

Your name: <userinput id="x-11">Michael</userinput>
Welcome Michael.
What do you want to call your project? We'll use this for the cabal name.

Project name: <userinput id="x-12">my-first-project</userinput>
Great, we'll be creating my-first-project today, and placing it in my-first-project.
What's going to be the name of your foundation datatype? This name must
start with a capital letter.

Foundation: <userinput id="x-13">FirstProject</userinput>
Yesod uses Persistent for its (you guessed it) persistence layer.
This tool will build in either SQLite or PostgreSQL or MongoDB support for you.
We recommend starting with SQLite: it has no dependencies.

We have another option: a tiny project with minimal dependencies.
Mostly this means no database and no authentication.

So, what'll it be?
s for sqlite, p for postgresql, m for mongodb, or t for tiny: <userinput id="x-14">s</userinput>
That's it! I'm creating your files now...
Generating deploy/Procfile
Generating config/sqlite.yml
Generating config/settings.yml
Generating main.hs
Generating my-first-project.cabal
Generating .ghci
Generating LICENSE
Generating Foundation.hs
Generating Import.hs
Generating Application.hs
Generating Handler/Root.hs
Generating Model.hs
Generating Settings.hs
Generating Settings/StaticFiles.hs
Generating templates/default-layout.lucius
Generating templates/default-layout.hamlet
Generating templates/default-layout-wrapper.hamlet
Generating templates/boilerplate-wrapper.hamlet
Generating templates/normalize.lucius
Generating templates/homepage.hamlet
Generating config/routes
Generating templates/homepage.lucius
Generating templates/homepage.julius
Generating config/models
Generating messages/en.msg

---------------------------------------

                     ___
                            {-)   |\
                       [m,].-"-.   /
      [][__][__]         \(/\__/\)/
      [__][__][__][__]  |  |
      [][__][__][__][__][] /   |
      [__][__][__][__][__]| /| |
      [][__][__][__][__][]| || |  
  ejm [__][__][__][__][__]__,__,  \__/


---------------------------------------

The foundation for your site has been laid.


There are a lot of resources to help you use Yesod.
Start with the book: http://www.yesodweb.com/book
Take part in the community: http://yesodweb.com/page/community


Start your project:

   cd my-first-project &amp;&amp; cabal install &amp;&amp; yesod devel

or if you use cabal-dev:

   cd my-first-project &amp;&amp; cabal-dev install &amp;&amp; yesod --dev devel
</codeblock>
    <p id="x-15">The scaffolded site gives you a lot of best practices out of the box, setting up files and
      dependencies in a time-tested approach used by most production Yesod sites. However, all this
      convenience can get in the way of actually learning Yesod. Therefore, most of this book will
      avoid the scaffolding tool, and instead deal directly with Yesod as a library.</p>
    <p id="x-16">We will cover the structure of the scaffolded site in more detail <xref id="x-17" href="../scaffolding-and-the-site-template/scaffolding-and-the-site-template.dita#scaffolding-and-the-site-template" format="dita">later</xref>.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
