<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="constructing-widgets"><title>Constructing Widgets</title><conbody>
  <p id="x1">In order to use widgets, you'll obviously need to be able to get your hands on them. The most
   common way will be via the ToWidget typeclass, and its toWidget method. This allows you to
   convert your Shakespearean templates directly to a Widget: Hamlet code will appear in the body,
   Julius scripts inside a &lt;script&gt; tag in the head, and Cassius and Lucius in a &lt;style&gt;
   tag.</p>
  <note id="x2">You can actually override the default behavior and have the script and style code appear in
   a separate file. The scaffolded site provides this for you automatically.</note>
  <p id="x3">But what if you want to add some &lt;meta&gt; tags, which need to appear in the head? Or if you
   want some Javascript to appear in the body instead of the head? For these purposes, Yesod
   provides two additional type classes: ToWidgetHead and ToWidgetBody. These work exactly as they
   seem they should.</p>
  <note id="x4">There is no ToWidgetBody instance for Lucius and Cassius, since you can't put a style tag in
   the body.</note>
  <p id="x5">In addition, there are a number of other functions for creating specific kinds of Widgets:</p>
  <dl id="x6">
   <dlentry id="x7">
    <dt id="x8">setTitle</dt>
    <dd id="x9">Turns some HTML into the page title.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x10">
    <dt id="x11">addCassiusMedia, addLuciusMedia</dt>
    <dd id="x12">Works the same as toWidget, but takes an additional parameter to indicate what kind of media
     this applies to. Useful for creating print stylesheets, for instance.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x13">
    <dt id="x14">addStylesheet</dt>
    <dd id="x15">Adds a reference, via a &lt;link&gt; tag, to an external stylesheet. Takes a type-safe
     URL.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x16">
    <dt id="x17">addStylesheetRemote</dt>
    <dd id="x18">Same as addStylesheet, but takes a normal URL. Useful for referring to files hosted on a
     CDN, like Google's jQuery UI CSS files.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x19">
    <dt id="x20">addScript</dt>
    <dd id="x21">Adds a reference, via a &lt;script&gt; tag, to an external script. Takes a type-safe URL.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x22">
    <dt id="x23">addScriptRemote</dt>
    <dd id="x24">Same as addScript, but takes a normal URL. Useful for referring to files hosted on a CDN,
     like Google's jQuery.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody></concept>