<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="types"><title>Types</title><conbody>
  <p id="x1">You may have noticed that I've been avoiding type signatures so far. That's because there's a
   little bit of a complication involved here. At the most basic level, all you need to know is that
   the scaffolded site defines a type synonym called Widget which you will almost always use. The
   technical details follow, but don't worry if it's a little hazy.</p>
  <p id="x2">Earlier, we said that a Widget is a monad transformer around a Handler. Well, that's mostly
   true, but we actually have a little more flexibility than that. We have a base datatype:
    <codeph id="x3">GGWidget master monad a</codeph>. The first parameter is the master site's foundation
   datatype. We'll be covering the difference between master and subsites in much more detail later,
   but for now, suffice it to say that the master foundation type is what uniquely represents your
   application.</p>
  <p id="x4">The second parameter is the inner monad. This in theory could be any monad, but as we'll see
   soon, it's almost always a Handler. Finally, the last parameter is the value contained by the
   GGWidget (remember, a GGWidget is a Monad).</p>
  <p id="x5">In practice, you will almost never see a GGWidget; that extra flexibility is really only needed
   internally to Yesod. What you will bump into occassionally is the GWidget, defined as
    <codeph id="x6">type GWidget sub master = GGWidget master (GHandler sub master)</codeph>. This spells
   out that our GWidget has a subsite and master site foundation (explained in a second), and that
   the inner monad is a GHandler, using the same sub and master sites.</p>
  <p id="x7">So what's the deal with that sub/master stuff? Well, when you're writing some reusable code,
   such as a CRUD application, you can write it as a subsite that can be embedded within any other
   Yesod application. In such a case, we need to keep track of information for both the sub and
   master sites. The simplest example is for the type-safe URLs: Yesod needs to know how to take a
   route for your CRUD subsite and turn it into a route for the master site so that it can be
   properly rendered.</p>
  <p id="x8">However, that sub/master distinction only ever matters when you're interacting with subsites.
   When you're writing your standard response code, you're dealing with just your application, and
   so the sub and master sites will be the same. Since this is the most common case, the scaffolded
   site declares a type synonym to help you out. Let's say your foundation type is MyCoolApp, it
   will define <codeph id="x9">type Widget = GWidget MyCoolApp MyCoolApp ()</codeph>. Therefore, we can get
   some very user-friendly type signatures on our widgets:</p>
  <codeblock outputclass="haskell" id="x10">footer :: Widget
footer = do
    toWidget [lucius| footer { font-weight: bold; text-align: center } |]
    toWidget [hamlet|
&lt;footer&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;That's all folks!
|]

page :: Widget
page = [whamlet|
&lt;p&gt;This is my page. I hope you enjoyed it.
^{footer}
|]</codeblock>
  <p id="x11">And in case you were wondered: we have an almost identical breakdown for the Handler datatypes:
   a less-used GGHandler, GHandler and finally a per-application Handler, defined as <codeph id="x12">type
    Handler = GHandler MyCoolApp MyCoolApp</codeph>.</p>
 </conbody></concept>