<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="whats-in-a-widget"><title>What's in a Widget?</title><conbody><p id="ww1">At a very superficial level, an HTML document is just a
            bunch of nested tags. This is the approach most HTML generation
            tools take: you simply define hierarchies of tags and are done with
            it. But let's imagine that I want to write a component of a page
            for displaying the navbar. I want this to be "plug and play": I
            simply call the function at the right time, and the navbar is
            inserted at the correct point in the hierarchy.</p><p id="ww2">This is where our superficial HTML generation breaks down.
            Our navbar likely consists of some CSS and JavaScript in addition
            to HTML. By the time we call the navbar function, we have already
            rendered the &lt;head&gt; tag, so it is too late to add a new
            &lt;style&gt; tag for our CSS declarations. Under normal
            strategies, we would need to break up our navbar function into
            three parts: HTML, CSS and JavaScript, and make sure that we always
            call all three pieces.</p><p id="ww3">Widgets take a different approach. Instead of viewing an
            HTML document as a monolithic tree of tags, widgets see a number of
            distinct components in the page. In particular:</p><ul id="x1"><li id="x2">The title</li><li id="x3">External stylesheets</li><li id="x4">External Javascript</li><li id="x5">CSS declarations</li><li id="x6">Javascript code</li><li id="x7">Arbitrary &lt;head&gt; content</li><li id="x8">Arbitrary &lt;body&gt; content</li></ul><p id="ww4">Different components have different semantics. For example,
            there can only be one title, but there can be multiple external
            scripts and stylesheets. However, those external scripts and
            stylesheets should only be included once. Arbitrary head and body
            content, on the other hand, has no limitation (someone may want to
            have five lorem ipsum blocks after all).</p><p id="ww5">The job of a widget is to hold onto these disparate
            components and apply proper logic for combining different widgets
            together. This consists of things like taking the first title set
            and ignoring others, applying <codeph id="x9">nub</codeph> to the list of
            external scripts and stylesheets, and simply concatenating head and
            body content.</p><note id="x10" type="other" othertype="advanced"><p id="ww6">In general, you should avoid nub since it has very bad
                performance. Usually when you are looking for uniqueness, you
                do not care about order, and therefore <codeph id="x11">map head . group .  sort</codeph>
                is more efficient than a call to nub. However,
                in our case, order <i id="x12">is</i> important: we would not want to
                include jQuery UI before we include jQuery. Therefore, we are
                stuck with nub.</p></note></conbody></concept>