<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="kinds-of-forms"><title>Kinds of Forms</title><conbody>
  <p id="x1">Before jumping into the types themselves, we should begin with an overview of the different
   kinds of forms. There are three categories:</p>
  <dl id="x2">
   <dlentry id="x3">
    <dt id="x4">Applicative</dt>
    <dd id="x5">These are the most commonly used (it's what appeared in the synopsis). Applicative gives us
     some nice properties of letting error messages coallesce together and keep a very high-level,
     declarative approach.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x6">
    <dt id="x7">Monadic</dt>
    <dd id="x8">A more powerful alternative to applicative. While this allows you more flexibility, at the
     cost of being more verbose. Useful if you want to create forms that don't fit into the standard
     two-column look.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x9">
    <dt id="x10">Input</dt>
    <dd id="x11">Used only for receiving input. Does not generate any HTML for receiving the user input.
     Useful for interacting with existing forms.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <p id="x12">In addition, there are a number of different variables that come into play for each form and
   field you will want to set up:</p>
  <ul id="ul_ibl_vig_md">
   <li id="x13">Is the field required or optional?</li>
   <li id="x14">Should it be submitted with GET or POST?</li>
   <li id="x15">Does it have a default value, or not?</li>
  </ul>
  <p id="x16">An overriding goal is to minimize the number of field definitions and let them work in as many
   contexts as possible. One result of this is that we end up with a few extra words for each field.
   In the synopsis, you may have noticed things like areq and that extra Nothing parameter. We'll
   cover why all of those exist in the course of this chapter, but for now realize that by making
   these parameters explicit, we are able to reuse the individuals fields (like
    <apiname id="x17">yesod-form:Yesod.Form.Fields:intField</apiname>) in many different ways.</p>
 </conbody></concept>