<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="running-forms"><title>Running forms</title><conbody>
  <p id="x1">At some point, we're going to need to take our beautiful forms and produce some results. There
   are a number of different functions available for this, each with its own purpose. I'll go
   through them, starting with the most common.</p>
  <dl id="x2">
   <dlentry id="x3">
    <dt id="x4">runFormPost</dt>
    <dd id="x5">This will run your form against any submitted POST parameter. If this is not a POST
     submission, it will return a FormMissing. This automatically inserts a nonce as a hidden form
     field to avoid <xref id="x6" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery" format="html" scope="external">CSRF</xref> attacks.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x7">
    <dt id="x8">runFormGet</dt>
    <dd id="x9">Same as runFormPost, for GET submissions. In order to distinguish a normal GET page load
     from a GET submission, it includes an extra _hasdata hidden field in the form.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x10">
    <dt id="x11">runFormPostNoNonce</dt>
    <dd id="x12">Same as runFormPost, but does not include (or require) the CSRF nonce.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x13">
    <dt id="x14">generateFormPost</dt>
    <dd id="x15">Instead of binding to existing POST parameters, acts as if there are none. This can be
     useful when you want to generate a new form after a previous form was submitted, such as in a
     wizard.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry id="x16">
    <dt id="x17">generateFormGet</dt>
    <dd id="x18">Same as generateFormPost, but for GET.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <p id="x19">The return type from the first three is <codeph id="x20">((FormResult a, Widget), Enctype)</codeph>. The
   Widget will already have any valdiation errors and previously submitted values.</p>
 </conbody></concept>