<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title>Synopsis</title>
 <conbody>
  <codeblock outputclass="haskell">{-# LANGUAGE OverloadedStrings #-}
import Network.HTTP.Conduit -- the main module

-- The streaming interface uses conduits
import Data.Conduit
import Data.Conduit.Binary (sinkFile)

import qualified Data.ByteString.Lazy as L
import Control.Monad.IO.Class (liftIO)

main :: IO ()
main = do
    -- Simplest query: just download the information from the given URL as a
    -- lazy ByteString.
    simpleHttp "http://www.example.com/foo.txt" >>= L.writeFile "foo.txt"

    -- Use the streaming interface instead. We need to run all of this inside a
    -- ResourceT, to ensure that all our connections get properly cleaned up in
    -- the case of an exception.
    runResourceT $ do
        -- We need a Manager, which keeps track of open connections. simpleHttp
        -- creates a new manager on each run (i.e., it never reuses
        -- connections).
        manager &lt;- newManager

        -- A more efficient version of the simpleHttp query above. First we
        -- parse the URL to a request.
        req &lt;- liftIO $ parseUrl "http://www.example.com/foo.txt"

        -- Now get the response
        res &lt;- http req manager

        -- And finally stream the value to a file
        responseBody res $$ sinkFile "foo.txt"

        -- Make it a POST request, don't follow redirects, and accept any
        -- status code.
        let req2 = req
                { method = "POST"
                , redirectCount = 0
                , checkStatus = \_ _ -> Nothing
                }
        res2 &lt;- http req2 manager
        responseBody res $$ sinkFile "post-foo.txt"</codeblock>
 </conbody>
</concept>
