<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="warp"><title>Warp</title><conbody><p id="warp1">As we have mentioned before, Yesod is built on the Web Application Interface (WAI), allowing it to run on any WAI backend. At the time of writing, the following backends are available:</p><ul id="x1"><li id="x2">Warp</li><li id="x3">FastCGI</li><li id="x4">SCGI</li><li id="x5">CGI</li><li id="x6">Webkit</li><li id="x7">Development server</li></ul><p id="warp2">The last two are not intended for production deployments. Of the remaining four, all can be used for production deployment in theory. In practice, a CGI backend will likely be horribly inefficient, since a new process must be spawned for each connection. And SCGI is not nearly as well supported by frontend web server as Warp or FastCGI.</p><p id="warp3">So between the two remaining choices, Warp gets a very strong recommendation because:</p><ul id="x8"><li id="x9">It is significantly faster.</li><li id="x10">Like FastCGI, it can run behind a frontend server like Nginx, using reverse HTTP proxy.</li><li id="x11">In addition, it is a fully capable server of its own accord, and can therefore be used without any frontend server.</li></ul><p id="warp4">But as fast as Warp is, it is still optimized as an application server, not a static file server. Therefore, for best performance, we recommend using Warp as your WAI backend, and to reverse proxy it behind Nginx, which is probably the fastest web server available today.</p></conbody></concept>