<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="defaultlayout"><title>defaultLayout</title><conbody><p id="dl1">Most websites like to apply some general template to all of their pages. defaultLayout is the recommended approach for this. While you could just as easily define your own function and call that instead, when you override defaultLayout all of the Yesod-generated pages (error pages, authentication pages) automatically get this style.</p><p id="dl2">Overriding is very straight-forward: we use <codeph id="x1">widgetToPageContent</codeph> to convert a Widget to a title, head tags and body tags, and then use hamletToRepHtml to convert a Hamlet template into a RepHtml. We can even use widget functions like addCassius from within defaultLayout. A simple example should make this all clear:</p><codeblock id="x2" outputclass="haskell">{-# LANGUAGE TypeFamilies, QuasiQuotes #-}
{-# LANGUAGE MultiParamTypeClasses, TemplateHaskell #-}
{-# LANGUAGE OverloadedStrings #-}
import Yesod
data Layout = Layout
mkYesod "Layout" [parseRoutes|/ RootR GET|]
instance Yesod Layout where
    approot _ = ""
-- START
    defaultLayout contents = do
        PageContent title headTags bodyTags &lt;- widgetToPageContent $ do
            addCassius [cassius|
#body
    font-family: sans-serif
#wrapper
    width: 760px
    margin: 0 auto
|]
            addWidget contents
        hamletToRepHtml [hamlet|
!!!

&lt;html&gt;
    &lt;head&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;#{title}
        ^{headTags}
    &lt;body&gt;
        &lt;div id="wrapper"&gt;
            ^{bodyTags}
|]
-- STOP
getRootR = defaultLayout $ do
    setTitle "Root test"
    addCassius [cassius|body
    color: red
|]
    addHamlet [hamlet|&lt;h1&gt;Hello|]
main = warpDebug 4000 Layout
</codeblock><note id="x3" type="other" othertype="advanced"><p id="dl3">The three exclamation points (!!!) on a line by
                themselves is used to insert a doctype statement in Hamlet. By
                default, this will be the HTML 5 doctype line, ie
                <codeph id="x4">&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;</codeph>. You should make certain to
                only insert this once per output. In most use cases, the only
                place you will need it is in your defaultLayout function.</p></note></conbody></concept>