<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="types"><title id="x-1">Types</title><conbody id="x-2">  <p id="x1">Before we jump into syntax, let's take a look at the various types involved. We mentioned in
   the introduction that types help protect us from XSS attacks. For example, let's say that we have
   an HTML template that should display someone's name; it might look like
    this:<codeblock outputclass="hamlet" id="x2">&lt;p&gt;Hello, my name is #{name}</codeblock><note id="x3">Yes, #{...} is how we do
    variable interpolation in Shakespeare.</note></p>
  <p id="x4">What should happen to <varname id="x5">name</varname>, and what should its datatype be? A naive
   approach would be to use a Text value, and insert it verbatim. But that would give us quite a
   problem when <codeph id="x6">name="&lt;script src='http://nefarious.com/evil.js'&gt;&lt;/script&gt;"</codeph>.
   What we want is to be able to entity-encode the name, so that "&lt;" becomes "&amp;lt;".</p>
  <p id="x7">An equally naive approach is to simply entity-encode <b id="x8">every</b> piece of text that gets
   embedded. What happens when you have some preexisting HTML generated from another process? For
   example, in this book, all Haskell code snippets are run through a colorizing that wraps up words
   in appropriate <codeph id="x9">span</codeph> tags. If we entity escaped everything, code snippets would
   be completely unreadable!</p>
  <p id="x10">Instead, we have an Html datatype. In order to generate an Html value, we have two options for
   APIs: the ToHtml typeclass provides a way to convert String and Text values into Html, via its
   toHtml function, automatically escaping entities along the way. This would be the approach we'd
   want for the name above. For the code snippet example, we would use the preEscaped family of
   functions.</p>
  <p id="x11">When you use variable interpolation in Hamlet (the HTML Shakespeare language), it automatically
   applies a toHtml call to the value inside. So if you interpolate a String, it will be
   entity-escaped. But if you provide an Html value, it will appear unmodified. In the code snippet
   example, we might interpolate with something like <codeph id="x12">#{preEscapedText
    myHaskellHtml}</codeph>.</p>
  <note id="x13">The Html datatype, as well as the functions mentioned, are all provided by the
    <apiname id="x14">blaze-html</apiname> package. This allows Hamlet to interact very nicely with all other
   blaze-html packages, and lets Hamlet provide a general solution for producing blaze-html values.
   Also, we get to take advantage of blaze-html's amazing performance.</note>
  <p id="x15">Similarly, we have Css/ToCss, as well as Javascript/ToJavascript. In those cases, the goal is
   not really security, as it is very uncommon to be interpolating user input to CSS and Javascript.
   Instead, this just provides some nice compile-time guarantees that we haven't accidently stuck
   some HTML in our CSS.</p>
  <note id="x16">One other advantage on the CSS side is some helper datatypes for colors and units. While this
   feature is not covered in this chapter, I encourage you to look at the API documentation and try
   it out yourself.</note>
 </conbody></concept>